All right.
So let's take a look at the Jupiter notebook that we are going to basically use to develop our machine
learning algorithm where we going to classify Again cancer in two or tumours in two malignant or benign
cancers here and just include a kind of a quick description of the problem statement.
Again we have our feature sets.
We have three features and kind of all occurred are presenting the characteristics of the cell or the
nucleus that you're paying out of the patient.
So we have reduced tecture of premiere areas mootness and so on datasets in general they are linearly
separable.
OK.
And we have we have 500 to 16 insistences and classes they are divided into two hundred and twelve malignant
cases and 357 benign kits.
OK.
So in total we're going to be five hundred and sixty nine.
And again the top of the class we're going to be either a malignant or benign.
All right.
You guys can download the data set.
If you follow that link or you can again I'm going to show you.
We're going to use the skm learn to actually load our deed.
All right so let's get started.
So first step is we're going to import all the libraries that we need.
OK.
So first step is going to import penders spdr.
What do you spend the suspenders.
Mainly it can be used as a library that can be used for data manipulations using data frames.
It's kind of like kind of Excel basically for Python.
Right.
And then the next step we're going to import nump high as MP nump I can be use ported data statistical
analysis.
Right.
And then moving forward we're going to import.
Matt plotly had met La lib.
Pipelet as PLG.
Okay.
And then afterwards we're going to import what we call it seaborne again metalled label can be used
for data visualization.
And I'm going to use kind of a library that we call it seaborne which is very powerful to do statistical
data visualization.
I'm going to show you the power and the beauty of Seymour as we move forward.
So going to import seaborne as s.a..
Right.
That's pretty much the first step.
It's done the celso so once would undersell it tells us OK so that means it's loading.
And we're a good case once you see the number of that means to a good the next step is going to actually
lower the actual kenzer datasets.
So I'm going to say from Escuela in the assets.
Import we're going to load the business on low breast cancers are going to load underscore breasts underscored
cancer cancer.
Okay.
So the first step.
So that window the data first and then second step would connect connected kind of an instance of that
low bit low breast cancer.
So we're going to do cancers equals we're going to take simply the load get Ken low low breast cancer.
Let's see here I'm is going to take an insistence on it.
Let's stay on it.
Now we have our cancer information.
Okay that's all pretty much the data.
Let's take a look at it let's view it.
So we're going to just run this cell that would show us basically okay.
So we have the data that's kind of the numbers that we have all the features you know we have all the
Target data showing is a zero order one showing simply if the cancer is malignant or benign.
And he would just you know a bunch of like messed up information as you can see here.
So let's see how can we view the data in a better better format so we click a that will simply create
your cells as a human is going to be creating couple of you were.
That's right.
So the next step is we wanted to see okay the key is within the cancer.
Okay let's see the kind of the titles.
Okay.
The key is within that dictionary.
So we're going to do was going to say Cancer keys and that will tell us pretty much looking at what
columns that we have or what dictionaries that we have.
So we have the data we have our target how our target Nemes which is kind of the title of the target
which is simply going to be malignant or benign description.
I'm going to tell us the description of the data and then going to have all the feature names which
is the actual feature name scanning screen or radius perimeter and so on.
Okay so let's print them all one by one.
Okay so the first up we're going to print right now in a print cancer and then we're going to do that
we're going to select the description section describe hey let's click run.
Once we see here it's actually going to show you in kind of the information that we wanted to view earlier.
But in a better format.
So we're just going to show you look at number of instance we have a 69 attributes 30.
And if you guys can see these are all the information regus pre-eminent and so on and so forth.
If we scroll down as we're sure the classic malignant or benign.
And if you go down it was just going to show you all the minimax or the values or the minimax or the
value.
So basically I'm sure you'll hear all the differences you know like the date 1995 and so on and so there's
kind of a quick description let's do the same as well.
So let's keep going.
So let's print.
We're going to do they're going to print cancer.
But we are going to select Instead our targets.
So I told you it's not going to admit that we're simply going to show us all the detailed information.
That's kind of the target class which is either a zero or one way.
Well again I'm going to do print and we're going to open and thinking about cancer.
And then going to select simply the target Nemes target underscored the names that would tell us.
Either we have to classic the malignant or benign.
They use one more time but before they featured names so let's print and then I'm going to buy cancer
sorry cancer and then we are going to selects simply our featured names.
It's going to take features.
Underscore names that will tell us simply all the feature names that we have.
So I mean regus infection and so on so forth.
All right.
So what if we wanted to look at the for example the shape of the of the data so we could do with it
going to write again cancer.
And then we're going to select the actual data which is simply all and we look at the data and then
apply a method for what shape they can tell us what's the shape of it.
So here we have as we expected we have five hundred and sixty nine Okay rolls or data sets and have
three columns three columns indicating three features.
Simply put right.
So the first step is what we're going to do in order to deal with it in a much easier way.
We're going to create a better frame.
Okay.
When we see a frame it would make our life ten times easier when we simply use penders later for him
to actually present the data.
And let's see how can we how can we do this.
So simply what we could do actually have the mandate here so we could do that we could drive PD the
airframe that would create a data frame out of our cancer data and the target there.
So here we're going to specify cancer data and target which means that we're going to include 30 columns
of all the data we have and then can add an additional column which the first column that includes a
target date which is kind of you know we can include all the training the NSA all the inputs and outputs
in just in one kind of data frame.
All right.
And he's not going to mention columns or specify the columns going to specify in P that append.
We're going to use append which is simply just to append two vectors or two columns together.
So going to have cancer but feature names and then we have target as well.
All right let's run.
This comment will simply create a frame of d.f. underscored.
Right.
Let's support the date offerings for I am d.f. underscore cancer.
Okay let's say we specify want to look at the first couple of the titles and the first couple of rows.
Okay.
So if we're right ahead they'll actually tell us of case we have them.
Yes.
I mean picture been premature and so on.
And if we keep going that we've tell us target as well which is pretty cool.
So now we have all our 30 basically features along with the target which is along with the goal or the
objectives that we wanted to implement.
Right.
Okay.
What I wanted to simply look adf cancelled as well but I don't want to look again let's create some
yourselves in here.
And let's instead of cleaning the hair let's look at the tail.
Let's look at the end of it should that make sense.
We have five hundred and sixteen find a 68.
And we have 31 columns again.
If we scroll down here again we'll see all the data but that's who we are looking at the last semples
basically.
Right.
OK.
Great.
That's pretty much all what we need to load the data.
The next step is that we wanted to check and just going to go and delete all these cells should I need
them.
So let's take a look at how can we visit the data.
So we're going to do.
They're going to use peer plot count plaque and scatterplot to actually view all the data using the
seaborne library.
So first let's try the plot.
I'm going to give you just you know on it.
First just to give you an idea for what the purpled does actually particle it give you get of a one
a one stop shop a quick glance at the entire data in one place.
So let's get started.
We're going to we're going to get a sense the pair the pair plot and what to do with think going to
IDF kinser.
We're going to call it the refrain.
We're going to do it.
We're going to use simply what variables do we need.
OK.
So what we're going to do.
They're going to write the virus which is all the very ones that we want.
OK.
I'm not going to plot all the 30 samples.
I'm going to plotless see the first five or four six OK have them copied here so we're going to just
going into the membraneous mean that Shesh area I mean pre-eminent use this day one very well that we
need to let's actually let's go unplugged this for us and see what's going to happen as best I can see
here.
It's actually really powerful.
You can see it just showing you all going to one step or the relationship between the radius or the
video that we chose with the means smaller than it's been pre-eminent in area and so on.
So the only problem is we can actually do the deed and it just looks fine to me.
But the only problem is that in sure the Tonga class it does ensure the actual look which one of these
samples is malignant and which one of them is benign.
So what we're going to do instead I'm going to actually write in a select call Hugh which is specify
the targets class.
So going to H U E equals going to specify what you use a column which has.
Okay to simply specify that going to use the target column which is simply this column right here which
is indicated.
See you on one.
Okay.
Kind of the hue which is indicating the cup.
Let's run this and see what's going to happen.
Well actually that's pretty mild this way better.
So as you can see here in classifiers as well.
Sure your key target if it's 0 0 1 0 0 indicates malignant and one in the kids benign.
What I mean by this is the blue points in here that's the malignant case.
That's mean the kind of his feet severe case or like the life threatening case per say.
So here you would see that area for instance for malignant cases a little bit more compared to the benign
cases the mean Premarin is a little bit more.
You will see that kind of the main area here is a little bit more.
You will see that even the distribution.
So this is kind of a distribution that shows you the distribution of samples for the memory as you can
see the radius for the malignant cases.
Actually more is actually higher.
And if you differ about the images that we had before actually let's go and view the images.
So.
So you go back to the images you would find that the malignant cases actually make mix a little bit
a little bit of sense so the tumour is kind of the malignant cases.
So you see the cells a little bit like you know like bigger persay and the arm of the area is little
bit bigger.
It's kind of a little bit more uniform a little bit smooth here.
The Bean I think is right.
OK.
The next step is that we're going to use the ascent as well.
Good luck with the seaborne going.
He was the counterplot.
OK.
So going to later today is tennis s dot count plot.
Going to do.
They're going to call the frame which is again d.f. on the squawky So you have underscored cancer and
organist's shoes simply would to choose the targets to an account with how many samples is zero and
how many samples is one.
Just to give you kind of visual as issue we know the symptoms beforehand.
We just want to look at Adam.
Right.
So we're going to do is going to detect cancer.
And then going to use simply the target colon to do with the counting.
All right.
Okay.
Let's run it together.
This is a target classic to show you okay this is you on one.
We know that the nelligan case is that over 200 samples and the benign cases is that at one hundred
and fifty samples in total about 560 something okay.
All right.
Let's keep going.
So the next step is we're going to right we're going to just take maybe one of these slide graphs and
see how can we play.
It's going to use as as again seabourn but we're going to do the scatterplot.
Right.
So I'm going to right we're going to get a sense that scareder plot and we are going to do they're going
to select which will run a plot on the x axis following a plot on the y axis.
What you are going to be selecting and what's the frame that we need to be selecting basically.
So the first step is going to type x let's say we're going to print let's say the mean Area mean area.
Okay.
Any one particular plot.
Why was she going to be mean smoothness per say mean smoothness and we want to apply the hue.
We're going to be my target.
And we need to select what.
What's the DNA that we do which is simply that what they are offering which is d.f. underscored kentz.
All right.
Let's run this and that's pretty much our scatterplot which is pretty interesting to see that the area
means more than this and he would are the third request.
Right.
Okay.
What if I wanted to select the correlation for example I want to just just run maybe like one man they
can tell us tell okay how these columns how these speeches are really.
So what we could do that we could use the seaborne heat map as follows.
So we couldn't just write as an as heat map and what were going to do with it were going to call it
a frame the f underscored cancer and we're going to apply a method that we call correlation which is
see all the are basic is just a simple method and simply to plot our heat map.
What we're going to do that we because we wanted to plot as well the values or the numbers of correlation.
We're giving you the annotation we're going to apply to maybe the make it to the test on this and stickling
see it's little bit like messed up in here.
So what we're going to do instead we have to change the size because we have plot in so many different
samples what were going to do with going to use the figures size to actually adjust the size of the
figure.
So again Tim's plot figure and we're going to set the figures size in to let's say 20 and 10 4 of them
20 and 10.
Okay.
Let's run it.
That's much better.
So this is pretty much the overall view of the correlation of the deed.
So here we have I would say if we choose.
Help me out there if you choose.
You see that simply we have you know point nine nine values for example between the main area the main
preliminary which means that there's a very high correlation between the two heat we have between let's
see the embryos.
I mean there is a very high correlation and so on you can just go through with the correlation it is
going to give you an overview of the correlation values between it.
All right.
That's all what we have afforded today the individualisation.
Let me recap.
So first of all we use clarges to plot to plot basically all the connotations or relationships between
the different variables and then we use counterplot to count the samples we were scatterplot just to
plot specific two variables.
So that's where the taiga class and then musical relations to actually show me the relations between
out of each.
I hope you guys enjoy their section and see the mix.